Servo | Arduino Documentation
/
 
ARDUINO.CC
 
Home 
/ 
Programming 
/ 
Library 
/ 
Servo 
 
Device Control 
Servo
 LGPL-2.1
V1.2.2
Michael Margolis, Arduino
Arduino
06/27/2024
Allows Arduino boards to control a variety of servo motors. 
 
This library can control a great number of servos.
It makes careful use of timers: the library can control 12 servos using only 1 timer.
On the Arduino Due you can control up to 60 servos.
Go to repository
Usage/Examples
Compatibility
Releases
This library allows an Arduino board to control RC (hobby) servo motors. Servos have integrated gears and a shaft that can be precisely controlled. Standard servos allow the shaft to be positioned at various angles, usually between 0 and 180 degrees. Continuous rotation servos allow the rotation of the shaft to be set to various speeds.
The Servo library supports up to 12 motors on most Arduino boards and 48 on the Arduino Mega. On boards other than the Mega, use of the library disables 
analogWrite
(
)
 (PWM) functionality on pins 9 and 10, whether or not there is a Servo on those pins. On the Mega, up to 12 servos can be used without interfering with PWM functionality; use of 12 to 23 motors will disable PWM on pins 11 and 12.
To use this library:
1
#include <Servo.h>
Circuit
Servo motors have three wires: power, ground, and signal. The power wire is typically red, and should be connected to the 5V pin on the Arduino board. The ground wire is typically black or brown and should be connected to a ground pin on the Arduino board. The signal pin is typically yellow, orange or white and should be connected to a digital pin on the Arduino board. Note that servos draw considerable power, so if you need to drive more than one or two, you'll probably need to power them from a separate supply (i.e. not the 5V pin on your Arduino). Be sure to connect the grounds of the Arduino and external power supply together.
Examples
Knob
: control the shaft of a servo motor by turning a potentiometer
Sweep
: sweeps the shaft of a servo motor back and forth
Methods
 
attach()
 
write()
 
writeMicroseconds()
 
read()
 
attached()
 
detach()
Was this article helpful?
Connect and Contribute
Project Hub
GitHub Repository
Forum
Product Compliance
Help Center
Trademarks & Licensing
© 2025 Arduino
Terms Of Service
Privacy Policy
Security
Cookie Settings
 






×


Notice
We use cookie for technical purpose and, with your consent, also for analytical and profiling purpose as specified in our cookie policy. You can express your consent by selecting the cookies you intend to accept by clicking “Configure”.  If you wish to continue browsing without cookies that are not strictly necessary, you can deny consent by clicking on “Reject” or by closing this banner by clicking the x in the upper right corner.
Press again to continue 0/1
CONFIGURE
REJECT
ACCEPT